README.md, before:

# python-zamg

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases]
[![GitHub Activity][commits-shield]][commits]
[![License][license-shield]](LICENSE)

[![pre-commit][pre-commit-shield]][pre-commit]
[![Black][black-shield]][black]
[![Code Coverage][codecov-shield]][codecov]

[![Project Maintenance][maintenance-shield]][user_profile]

Python library to read 10 min weather data from ZAMG

## About

This package allows you to read the weather data from weather stations of ZAMG weather service.
ZAMG is the Zentralanstalt für Meteorologie und Geodynamik in Austria.

## Installation

```bash
pip install zamg
```

## Usage

Simple usage example to fetch specific data from the closest station.

```python
"""Asynchronous Python client for ZAMG weather data."""
import asyncio

import src.zamg.zamg
from src.zamg.exceptions import ZamgError


async def main():
    """Sample of getting data"""
    try:
        async with src.zamg.zamg.ZamgData() as zamg:
            # option to disable verify of ssl check
            zamg.verify_ssl = False
            # trying to read zamg station id of the closest station
            data = await zamg.closest_station(46.99, 15.499)
            # set closest station as default one to read
            zamg.set_default_station(data)
            print("closest_station = " + str(zamg.get_station_name) + " / " + str(data))
            # print list with all possible parameters
            print(f"Possible station parameters: {zamg.get_all_parameters()}")
            # set parameters directly
            zamg.station_parameters = "TL,SO"
            # or set parameters as list
            zamg.set_parameters(("TL", "SO"))
            # if none of the above parameters are set, all possible parameters are read
            # do an update
            await zamg.update()

            print(f"---------- Weather for station {zamg.get_station_name} ({data})")
            for param in zamg.get_parameters():
                print(
                    str(param)
                    + " -> "
                    + str(zamg.get_data(parameter=param, data_type="name"))
                    + " -> "
                    + str(zamg.get_data(parameter=param))
                    + " "
                    + str(zamg.get_data(parameter=param, data_type="unit"))
                )
            print("last update: %s", zamg.last_update)
    except (ZamgError) as exc:
        print(exc)


if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(main())

```

## Contributions are welcome!

If you want to contribute to this please read the [Contribution guidelines](https://github.com/killer0071234/python-zamg/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Credits

Code template to read dataset API was mainly taken from [@LuisTheOne](https://github.com/LuisThe0ne)'s [zamg-api-cli-client][zamg_api_cli_client]

[Dataset API Dokumentation][dataset_api_doc]

---

[black]: https://github.com/psf/black
[black-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/killer0071234/python-zamg.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits]: https://github.com/killer0071234/python-zamg/commits/main
[codecov-shield]: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/gh/killer0071234/python-zamg?style=for-the-badge&token=O5YDLF0X9G
[codecov]: https://codecov.io/gh/killer0071234/python-zamg
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/killer0071234/python-zamg.svg?style=for-the-badge
[maintenance-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-@killer0071234-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge
[pre-commit]: https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit
[pre-commit-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge
[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/killer0071234/python-zamg.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases]: https://github.com/killer0071234/python-zamg/releases
[user_profile]: https://github.com/killer0071234
[zamg_api_cli_client]: https://github.com/LuisThe0ne/zamg-api-cli-client
[dataset_api_doc]: https://github.com/Geosphere-Austria/dataset-api-docs

Commit message:

Update readme with geosphere information

README.md, after:

# python-zamg

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases]
[![GitHub Activity][commits-shield]][commits]
[![License][license-shield]](LICENSE)

[![pre-commit][pre-commit-shield]][pre-commit]
[![Black][black-shield]][black]
[![Code Coverage][codecov-shield]][codecov]

[![Project Maintenance][maintenance-shield]][user_profile]

Python library to read 10 min weather data from Geosphere Austria former ZAMG

## About

This package allows you to read the weather data from weather stations of Geosphere Austria weather service.
Geosphere Austria joins Zentralanstalt für Meteorologie und Geodynamik (ZAMG) and the Geologische Bundesanstalt (GBA)
since 1st January 2023.

## Installation

```bash
pip install zamg
```

## Usage

Simple usage example to fetch specific data from the closest station.

```python
"""Asynchronous Python client for ZAMG weather data."""
import asyncio

import src.zamg.zamg
from src.zamg.exceptions import ZamgError


async def main():
    """Sample of getting data"""
    try:
        async with src.zamg.zamg.ZamgData() as zamg:
            # option to disable verify of ssl check
            zamg.verify_ssl = False
            # trying to read zamg station id of the closest station
            data = await zamg.closest_station(46.99, 15.499)
            # set closest station as default one to read
            zamg.set_default_station(data)
            print("closest_station = " + str(zamg.get_station_name) + " / " + str(data))
            # print list with all possible parameters
            print(f"Possible station parameters: {zamg.get_all_parameters()}")
            # set parameters directly
            zamg.station_parameters = "TL,SO"
            # or set parameters as list
            zamg.set_parameters(("TL", "SO"))
            # if none of the above parameters are set, all possible parameters are read
            # do an update
            await zamg.update()

            print(f"---------- Weather for station {zamg.get_station_name} ({data})")
            for param in zamg.get_parameters():
                print(
                    str(param)
                    + " -> "
                    + str(zamg.get_data(parameter=param, data_type="name"))
                    + " -> "
                    + str(zamg.get_data(parameter=param))
                    + " "
                    + str(zamg.get_data(parameter=param, data_type="unit"))
                )
            print("last update: %s", zamg.last_update)
    except (ZamgError) as exc:
        print(exc)


if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(main())

```

## Contributions are welcome!

If you want to contribute to this please read the [Contribution guidelines](https://github.com/killer0071234/python-zamg/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Credits

Code template to read dataset API was mainly taken from [@LuisTheOne](https://github.com/LuisThe0ne)'s [zamg-api-cli-client][zamg_api_cli_client]

[Dataset API Dokumentation][dataset_api_doc]

---

[black]: https://github.com/psf/black
[black-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/killer0071234/python-zamg.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits]: https://github.com/killer0071234/python-zamg/commits/main
[codecov-shield]: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/gh/killer0071234/python-zamg?style=for-the-badge&token=O5YDLF0X9G
[codecov]: https://codecov.io/gh/killer0071234/python-zamg
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/killer0071234/python-zamg.svg?style=for-the-badge
[maintenance-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-@killer0071234-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge
[pre-commit]: https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit
[pre-commit-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge
[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/killer0071234/python-zamg.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases]: https://github.com/killer0071234/python-zamg/releases
[user_profile]: https://github.com/killer0071234
[zamg_api_cli_client]: https://github.com/LuisThe0ne/zamg-api-cli-client
[dataset_api_doc]: https://github.com/Geosphere-Austria/dataset-api-docs
